Course 6 - Sprint 7: Create Banking Application (IDBC Bank) with
MYSQL and JDBC API
Problem Statement: C6S7PR1 – IDBC Bank (Mini Project)
Today, ‘Life at your Doorstep’ has become a way of life. Performing routine tasks
has become quite simple as many companies have started providing services
online. Groceries, medicines, clothes and other everyday essentials, all get
delivered at home. A doctor’s consultation, teaching sessions, and many other
services are also provided online.
Banking services are also majorly online, but to open a bank account, one has to
visit the bank in person. Many global banks have ventured into the new era of
banking. They allow their customers to open their bank account from the comfort
of their homes. IDBC bank is now providing the facility of opening an account
onto its online platform. They provide this service to individuals who are more
than 18 years of age. However, not all types of accounts can be opened online.
There are two types of accounts that are provided.
Save Account – acts like a normal single owner savings bank account
Pay Account – to make bill payments, do online shopping and more
The software team at IDBC Bank needs to build an application that will help
customers to open the save and pay bank account.
Features of the Bank accounts
1. Save Account
• Must have a 12 digit auto-generated account number
• Interest is calculated on the available balance and credited into the
account on yearly basis, the interest rate for customers is 2.5%
 Formula to calculate interest:
(total balance x interest rate) /100
2. Pay Account
• Must have a 12 digit auto-generated account number
• No interest is calculated on the amount available in the account


Note:
Operations such as withdrawal, deposit (both cash and check), check balance,
fund transfer etc., can be performed.
Tasks
1. Identify the entities and attributes to design the database tables.
2. Ensure that appropriate constraints are applied on the tables designed.
3. All the data for the bank operations such as balance check, withdrawal, etc.,
must be read from the database.
4. A log of transactions is maintained for each customer.
